07a-server_logs.asciidoc, before:

== Event Streams ==

Much of Hadoop's adoption is driven by organizations realizing they the opportunity to measure every aspect of their operation, unify those data sources, and act on the patterns that Hadoop and other Big Data tools uncover. 

For 

e-commerce site, an advertising broker, or a hosting provider, there's no wonder inherent in being able to measure every customer interaction, no controversy that it's enormously valuable to uncovering patterns in those interactions, and no lack of tools to act on those patterns in real time.

can use the clickstream of interactions with each email 
; this was one of the cardinal advantages cited in the success of Barack Obama's 2012 campaign.


This chapter's techniques will help a hospital process the stream of data from every ICU patient; a retailer process the entire purchase-decision process
from
or a political campaign to understand and tune
the response to
each email batch and advertising placement.


Hadoop cut its teeth at Yahoo, where it was primarily used for processing internet-sized web crawls(see next chapter on text processing) and 

// ?? maybe this should just be 'data streams' or something


Quite likely, server log processing either a) is the reason you got this book or b) seems utterly boring. For the latter folks, stick with it; hidden in this chapter are basic problems of statistics (finding histogram of pageviews), text processing (regular expressions for parsing), and graphs (constructing the tree of paths that users take through a website).


=== Webserver Log Parsing ===

We'll represent loglines with the following <<serverlog_logline_fields,model definition>>:

[[serverlog_logline_fields]]
----
include::code/serverlogs/model/logline--fields.rb[]
----

Since most of our questions are about what visitors do, we'll mainly use `visitor_id` (to identify common requests for a visitor), `uri_str` (what they requested), `requested_at` (when they requested it) and `referer` (the page they clicked on).  Don't worry if you're not deeply familiar with the rest of the fields in our model -- they'll become clear in context.

Two notes, though. In these explorations, we're going to use the `ip_address` field for the `visitor_id`. That's good enough if you don't mind artifacts, like every visitor from the same coffee shop being treated identically. For serious use, though, many web applications assign an identifying "cookie" to each visitor and add it as a custom logline field. Following good practice, we've built this model with a `visitor_id` method that decouples the _semantics_ ("visitor") from the _data_ ("the IP address they happen to have visited from"). Also please note that, though the dictionary blesses the term 'referrer', the early authors of the web used the spelling 'referer' and we're now stuck with it in this context. 

=== Simple Log Parsing ===

Webserver logs typically follow some variant of the <<serverlog_example_line,"Apache Common Log" format>> -- a series of lines describing each web request:

[[serverlog_example_line]]
----
154.5.248.92 - - [30/Apr/2003:13:17:04 -0700] "GET /random/video/Star_Wars_Kid.wmv HTTP/1.0" 206 176250 "-" "Mozilla/4.77 (Macintosh; U; PPC)"
----

Our first task is to leave that arcane format behind and extract healthy structured models. Since every line stands alone, the <<serverlog_parser_processor,parse script>> is simple as can be: a transform-only script that passes each line to the `Logline.parse` method and emits the model object it returns.

[[serverlog_parser_processor]]
----
include::code/serverlogs/parser--processor.rb[]
----

.Star Wars Kid serverlogs
****
For sample data, we'll use the http://waxy.org/2008/05/star_wars_kid_the_data_dump/[webserver logs released] by blogger Andy Baio. In 2003, he posted the famous http://j.mp/vidswkid["Star Wars Kid"] video, which for several years ranked as the biggest viral video of all time. (It augments a teenager's awkward Jedi-style fighting moves with the special effects of a real lightsaber.) Here's his description:

[quote]
____
I've decided to release the first six months of server logs from the meme's spread into the public domain -- with dates, times, IP addresses, user agents, and referer information. ... On April 29 at 4:49pm, I posted the video, renamed to "Star_Wars_Kid.wmv" -- inadvertently giving the meme its permanent name. (Yes, I coined the term "Star Wars Kid." It's strange to think it would've been "Star Wars Guy" if I was any lazier.) From there, for the first week, it spread quickly through news site, blogs and message boards, mostly oriented around technology, gaming, and movies. ...

This file is a subset of the Apache server logs from April 10 to November 26, 2003. It contains every request for my homepage, the original video, the remix video, the mirror redirector script, the donations spreadsheet, and the seven blog entries I made related to Star Wars Kid. I included a couple weeks of activity before I posted the videos so you can determine the baseline traffic I normally received to my homepage. The data is public domain. If you use it for anything, please drop me a note!
____
****

The details of parsing are mostly straightforward -- we use a regular expression to pick apart the fields in each line. That regular expression, however, is another story:

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-00-model-regexp.rb[]
----

It may look terrifying, but taken piece-by-piece it's not actually that bad.  Regexp-fu is an essential skill for data science in practice -- you're well advised to walk through it. Let's do so.

* The meat of each line describe the contents to match -- `\S+` for "a sequence of non-whitespace", `\d+` for "a sequence of digits", and so forth. If you're not already familiar with regular expressions at that level, consult the excellent http://j.mp/regexpinfo[tutorial at regular-expressions.info].
* This is an 'extended-form' regular expression, as requested by the `x` at the end of it. An extended-form regexp ignores whitespace and treats `#` as a comment delimiter -- constructing a regexp this complicated would be madness otherwise. Be careful to backslash-escape spaces and hash marks.
* The `\A` and `\z` anchor the regexp to the absolute start and end of the string respectively.
* Fields are selected using 'named capture group' syntax: `(?<ip_address>\S+)`. You can retrieve its contents using `match[:ip_address]`, or get all of them at once using `captures_hash` as we do in the `parse` method.
* Build your regular expressions to be 'good brittle'. If you only expect IP addresses to be numbers with dots, make your program reject records that 

That regular expression does almost all the heavy lifting, but isn't sufficient to properly extract the `requested_at` time. Wukong models provide a "security gate" for each field in the form of the `receive_(field name)` method. The setter method (`requested_at=`) applies a new value directly, but the `receive_requested_at` method is expected to appropriately validate and transform the given value. The default method performs simple 'do the right thing'-level type conversion, sufficient to (for example) faithfully load an object from a plain JSON hash. But for complicated cases you're invited to override it as we do here.

----
include::/Users/flip/ics/book/big_data_for_chimps/code/serverlogs/models/logline--requested_at.rb[]
----

There's a general lesson here for data-parsing scripts. Don't try to be a hero and get everything done in one giant method. The giant regexp just coarsely separates the values; any further special handling happens in isolated methods.

Here's the <<serverlogs_output_parser_map,output of this script>> in local mode:

[[serverlogs_output_parser_map]]
----
include::code/serverlogs/output-parser-map.log[]
----

=== Histograms === 

When do people visit the site?

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-mapper.rb[]
----

We want to group on `day_hr`, so just add a method implementing (and documenting!) that domain knowledge. 

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-00-model-day_hr.rb[]
----

This is the advantage of having a model and not just a passive sack of data.

Run it in map mode:

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-02-mapper-wu-lign-sort.log[]
----

TODO: digression about `wu-lign`.

Sort and save the map output; then write and debug your reducer.

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-full.rb[]
----

When things are working, this is what you'll see. Notice that the `.../Star_Wars_Kid.wmv` file already have five times the pageviews as the site root (`/`).

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-03-reduce.log[]
----

You're ready to run the script in the cloud! Fire it off and you'll see dozens of workers start processing the data.

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-04-freals.log[]
----

=== User Paths through the site ("Sessionizing")

Now let's do some stuff more challenging that you'd try in a normal relational DB.

NOTE:[What are the important locality feature(s) to group on?]

spit out `[ip, day_hr, visit_time, path]`.

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-03-breadcrumbs-full.rb[]
----

run it in map mode:

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-01-mapper.log[]
----

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-03-breadcrumbs-02-mapper.log[]
----

group on user

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-03-breadcrumbs-03-reducer.log[]
----

We use the secondary sort so that each visit is in strict order of time within a session.

You might ask why that is necessary -- surely each mapper reads the lines in order? Yes, but you have no control over what order the mappers run, or where their input begins and ends.

This script _will_ accumulate multiple visits of a page.


TODO: say more about the secondary sort.


=== Page-Page similarity

What can you do with the sessionized logs? Well, each row lists a user on the left and a bunch of pages on the right.

We've been thinking about that as a table, but it's also a graph! 

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-04-page_page_edges-full.rb[]
----


----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-04-page_page_edges-03-reducer.log[]
----

You'll learn more about this in the chapter on ((Processing Graphs)), but 


=== Geo-IP Matching ===

[[range_query]]
[[geo_ip_matching]]

You can learn a lot about your site's audience in aggregate by mapping IP addresses to geolocation. Not just in itself, but joined against other datasets, like census data, store locations, weather and time. footnote:[These databases only impute a coarse-grained estimate of each visitor's location -- they hold no direct information about the persom. Please consult your priest/rabbi/spirit guide/grandmom or other appropriate moral compass before diving too deep into the world of unmasking your site's guests.]

Maxmind makes their http://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite[GeoLite IP-to-geo database] available under an open license (CC-BY-SA)footnote:[For serious use, there are professional-grade datasets from Maxmind, Quova, Digital Element among others.]. Out of the box, its columns are `beg_ip`, `end_ip`, `location_id`, where the first two columns show the low and high ends (inclusive) of a range that maps to that location. Every address lies in at most one range; locations may have multiple ranges.

This arrangement caters to range queries in a relational database, but isn't suitable for our needs. A single IP-geo block can span thousands of addresses.

To get the right locality, take each range and break it at some block level. Instead of having `1.2.3.4` to `1.2.5.6` on one line, let's use the first three quads (first 24 bits) and emit rows for `1.2.3.4` to `1.2.3.255`, `1.2.4.0` to `1.2.4.255`, and `1.2.5.0` to `1.2.5.6`. This lets us use the first segment as the partition key, and the full ip address as the sort key.

          lines            bytes  description                  file            
      15_288_766   1_094_541_688  24-bit partition key         maxmind-geolite_city-20121002.tsv
       2_288_690     183_223_435  16-bit partition key         maxmind-geolite_city-20121002-16.tsv
       2_256_627      75_729_432  original (not denormalized)  GeoLiteCity-Blocks.csv

       
=== Range Queries ===       

This is a generally-applicable approach for doing range queries.

* Choose a regular interval, fine enough to avoid skew but coarse enough to avoid ballooning the dataset size.
* Whereever a range crosses an interval boundary, split it into multiple records, each filling or lying within a single interval.
* Emit a compound key of `[interval, join_handle, beg, end]`, where
  - `interval` is 
  - `join_handle` identifies the originating table, so that records are grouped for a join (this is what ensures 
  If the interval is transparently a prefix of the index (as it is here), you can instead just ship the remainder: `[interval, join_handle, beg_suffix, end_suffix]`.
* Use the 


In the geodata section, the "quadtile" scheme is (if you bend your brain right) something of an extension on this idea -- instead of splitting ranges on regular intervals, we'll split regions on a regular grid scheme.

[[server_logs_ddos]]
=== Using Hadoop for website stress testing ("Benign DDos")

Hadoop is engineered to consume the full capacity of every available resource up to the currently-limiting one. So in general, you should never issue requests against external services from a Hadoop job -- one-by-one queries against a database; crawling web pages; requests to an external API. The resulting load spike will effectively be attempting what web security folks call a "DDoS", or distributed denial of service attack.

Unless of course you are trying to test a service for resilience against an adversarial DDoS -- in which case that assault is a feature, not a bug!

.elephant_stampede
----

        require 'faraday'
	
        processor :elephant_stampede do

	  def process(logline)
	    beg_at = Time.now.to_f
	    resp = Faraday.get url_to_fetch(logline)
	    yield summarize(resp, beg_at)
	  end

	  def summarize(resp, beg_at)
	    duration = Time.now.to_f - beg_at
	    bytesize = resp.body.bytesize
	    { duration: duration, bytesize: bytesize }
	  end

	  def url_to_fetch(logline)
	    logline.url
	  end
	end

	flow(:mapper){ input > parse_loglines > elephant_stampede }
----	

	
You must use Wukong's eventmachine bindings to make more than one simultaneous request per mapper.

=== References

* http://www.botsvsbrowsers.com/[Database of Robot User Agent strings]

Commit message:

server logs story rolls along

07a-server_logs.asciidoc, after:

== Event Streams ==

Much of Hadoop's adoption is driven by organizations realizing they the opportunity to measure every aspect of their operation, unify those data sources, and act on the patterns that Hadoop and other Big Data tools uncover. 

For 

e-commerce site, an advertising broker, or a hosting provider, there's no wonder inherent in being able to measure every customer interaction, no controversy that it's enormously valuable to uncovering patterns in those interactions, and no lack of tools to act on those patterns in real time.

can use the clickstream of interactions with each email 
; this was one of the cardinal advantages cited in the success of Barack Obama's 2012 campaign.


This chapter's techniques will help a hospital process the stream of data from every ICU patient; a retailer process the entire purchase-decision process
from
or a political campaign to understand and tune
the response to
each email batch and advertising placement.


Hadoop cut its teeth at Yahoo, where it was primarily used for processing internet-sized web crawls(see next chapter on text processing) and 

// ?? maybe this should just be 'data streams' or something


Quite likely, server log processing either a) is the reason you got this book or b) seems utterly boring. For the latter folks, stick with it; hidden in this chapter are basic problems of statistics (finding histogram of pageviews), text processing (regular expressions for parsing), and graphs (constructing the tree of paths that users take through a website).


=== Webserver Log Parsing ===

We'll represent loglines with the following <<serverlog_logline_fields,model definition>>:

[[serverlog_logline_fields]]
----
include::code/serverlogs/model/logline--fields.rb[]
----

Since most of our questions are about what visitors do, we'll mainly use `visitor_id` (to identify common requests for a visitor), `uri_str` (what they requested), `requested_at` (when they requested it) and `referer` (the page they clicked on).  Don't worry if you're not deeply familiar with the rest of the fields in our model -- they'll become clear in context.

Two notes, though. In these explorations, we're going to use the `ip_address` field for the `visitor_id`. That's good enough if you don't mind artifacts, like every visitor from the same coffee shop being treated identically. For serious use, though, many web applications assign an identifying "cookie" to each visitor and add it as a custom logline field. Following good practice, we've built this model with a `visitor_id` method that decouples the _semantics_ ("visitor") from the _data_ ("the IP address they happen to have visited from"). Also please note that, though the dictionary blesses the term 'referrer', the early authors of the web used the spelling 'referer' and we're now stuck with it in this context. 

=== Simple Log Parsing ===

Webserver logs typically follow some variant of the <<serverlog_example_line,"Apache Common Log" format>> -- a series of lines describing each web request:

[[serverlog_example_line]]
----
154.5.248.92 - - [30/Apr/2003:13:17:04 -0700] "GET /random/video/Star_Wars_Kid.wmv HTTP/1.0" 206 176250 "-" "Mozilla/4.77 (Macintosh; U; PPC)"
----

Our first task is to leave that arcane format behind and extract healthy structured models. Since every line stands alone, the <<serverlog_parser_processor,parse script>> is simple as can be: a transform-only script that passes each line to the `Logline.parse` method and emits the model object it returns.

[[serverlog_parser_processor]]
----
include::code/serverlogs/parser--processor.rb[]
----

.Star Wars Kid serverlogs
****
For sample data, we'll use the http://waxy.org/2008/05/star_wars_kid_the_data_dump/[webserver logs released] by blogger Andy Baio. In 2003, he posted the famous http://j.mp/vidswkid["Star Wars Kid"] video, which for several years ranked as the biggest viral video of all time. (It augments a teenager's awkward Jedi-style fighting moves with the special effects of a real lightsaber.) Here's his description:

[quote]
____
I've decided to release the first six months of server logs from the meme's spread into the public domain -- with dates, times, IP addresses, user agents, and referer information. ... On April 29 at 4:49pm, I posted the video, renamed to "Star_Wars_Kid.wmv" -- inadvertently giving the meme its permanent name. (Yes, I coined the term "Star Wars Kid." It's strange to think it would've been "Star Wars Guy" if I was any lazier.) From there, for the first week, it spread quickly through news site, blogs and message boards, mostly oriented around technology, gaming, and movies. ...

This file is a subset of the Apache server logs from April 10 to November 26, 2003. It contains every request for my homepage, the original video, the remix video, the mirror redirector script, the donations spreadsheet, and the seven blog entries I made related to Star Wars Kid. I included a couple weeks of activity before I posted the videos so you can determine the baseline traffic I normally received to my homepage. The data is public domain. If you use it for anything, please drop me a note!
____
****

The details of parsing are mostly straightforward -- we use a regular expression to pick apart the fields in each line. That regular expression, however, is another story:

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-00-model-regexp.rb[]
----

It may look terrifying, but taken piece-by-piece it's not actually that bad.  Regexp-fu is an essential skill for data science in practice -- you're well advised to walk through it. Let's do so.

* The meat of each line describe the contents to match -- `\S+` for "a sequence of non-whitespace", `\d+` for "a sequence of digits", and so forth. If you're not already familiar with regular expressions at that level, consult the excellent http://j.mp/regexpinfo[tutorial at regular-expressions.info].
* This is an 'extended-form' regular expression, as requested by the `x` at the end of it. An extended-form regexp ignores whitespace and treats `#` as a comment delimiter -- constructing a regexp this complicated would be madness otherwise. Be careful to backslash-escape spaces and hash marks.
* The `\A` and `\z` anchor the regexp to the absolute start and end of the string respectively.
* Fields are selected using 'named capture group' syntax: `(?<ip_address>\S+)`. You can retrieve its contents using `match[:ip_address]`, or get all of them at once using `captures_hash` as we do in the `parse` method.
* Build your regular expressions to be 'good brittle'. If you only expect HTTP request methods to be uppercase strings, make your program reject records that are otherwise. When you're processing billions of events, those one-in-a-million deviants start occurring thousands of times.

That regular expression does almost all the heavy lifting, but isn't sufficient to properly extract the `requested_at` time. Wukong models provide a "security gate" for each field in the form of the `receive_(field name)` method. The setter method (`requested_at=`) applies a new value directly, but the `receive_requested_at` method is expected to appropriately validate and transform the given value. The default method performs simple 'do the right thing'-level type conversion, sufficient to (for example) faithfully load an object from a plain JSON hash. But for complicated cases you're invited to override it as we do here.

----
include::/Users/flip/ics/book/big_data_for_chimps/code/serverlogs/models/logline--requested_at.rb[]
----

There's a general lesson here for data-parsing scripts. Don't try to be a hero and get everything done in one giant method. The giant regexp just coarsely separates the values; any further special handling happens in isolated methods.

Test the <<serverlogs_output_parser_map,script in local mode>>:

[[serverlogs_output_parser_map]]
----
include::code/serverlogs/output-parser-map.log[]
----

Then <<serverlogs_output_parser_freals,run it on the full dataset>> to produce the starting point for the rest of our work:

[[serverlogs_output_parser_freals]]
----
TODO
----

=== Histograms === 

Let's start exploring the dataset. Andy Baio 

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-mapper.rb[]
----

We want to group on `date_hr`, so just add a 'virtual accessor' -- a method that behaves like an attribute but derives its value from another field: 

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-00-model-date_hr.rb[]
----

This is the advantage of having a model and not just a passive sack of data.

Run it in map mode:

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-02-mapper-wu-lign-sort.log[]
----

TODO: digression about `wu-lign`.

Sort and save the map output; then write and debug your reducer.

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-full.rb[]
----

When things are working, this is what you'll see. Notice that the `.../Star_Wars_Kid.wmv` file already have five times the pageviews as the site root (`/`).

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-03-reduce.log[]
----

You're ready to run the script in the cloud! Fire it off and you'll see dozens of workers start processing the data.

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-04-freals.log[]
----

=== User Paths through the site ("Sessionizing")

We can use the user logs to assemble a picture of how users navigate the site -- 'sessionizing' their pageviews. Marketing and e-commerce sites have a great deal of interest in optimizing their "conversion funnel", the sequence of pages that visitors follow before filling out a contact form, or buying those shoes, or whatever it is the site exists to serve. Visitor sessions are also useful for defining groups of related pages, in a manner far more robust than what simple page-to-page links would define. A recommendation algorithm using those relations would for example help an e-commerce site recommend teflon paste to a visitor buying plumbing fittings, or help a news site recommend an article about Marilyn Monroe to a visitor who has just finished reading an article about John F Kennedy. Many commercial web analytics tools don't offer a view into user sessions -- assembling them is extremely challenging for a traditional datastore. It's a piece of cake for Hadoop, as you're about to see.

NOTE:[Take a moment and think about the locality: what feature(s) do we need to group on? What additional feature(s) should we sort with?]


spit out `[ip, date_hr, visit_time, path]`.

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-03-breadcrumbs-full.rb[]
----

You might ask why we don't partition directly on say both `visitor_id` and date (or other time bucket). Partitioning by date would break the locality of any visitor session that crossed midnight: some of the requests would be in one day, the rest would be in the next day.

run it in map mode:

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-02-histograms-01-mapper.log[]
----

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-03-breadcrumbs-02-mapper.log[]
----

group on user

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-03-breadcrumbs-03-reducer.log[]
----

We use the secondary sort so that each visit is in strict order of time within a session.

You might ask why that is necessary -- surely each mapper reads the lines in order? Yes, but you have no control over what order the mappers run, or where their input begins and ends.

This script _will_ accumulate multiple visits of a page.


TODO: say more about the secondary sort.


=== Page-Page similarity

What can you do with the sessionized logs? Well, each row lists a user on the left and a bunch of pages on the right.

We've been thinking about that as a table, but it's also a graph! 

----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-04-page_page_edges-full.rb[]
----


----
include::code/serverlogs/logline-04-page_page_edges-03-reducer.log[]
----

You'll learn more about this in the chapter on ((Processing Graphs)), but 


=== Geo-IP Matching ===

[[range_query]]
[[geo_ip_matching]]

You can learn a lot about your site's audience in aggregate by mapping IP addresses to geolocation. Not just in itself, but joined against other datasets, like census data, store locations, weather and time. footnote:[These databases only impute a coarse-grained estimate of each visitor's location -- they hold no direct information about the persom. Please consult your priest/rabbi/spirit guide/grandmom or other appropriate moral compass before diving too deep into the world of unmasking your site's guests.]

Maxmind makes their http://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite[GeoLite IP-to-geo database] available under an open license (CC-BY-SA)footnote:[For serious use, there are professional-grade datasets from Maxmind, Quova, Digital Element among others.]. Out of the box, its columns are `beg_ip`, `end_ip`, `location_id`, where the first two columns show the low and high ends (inclusive) of a range that maps to that location. Every address lies in at most one range; locations may have multiple ranges.

This arrangement caters to range queries in a relational database, but isn't suitable for our needs. A single IP-geo block can span thousands of addresses.

To get the right locality, take each range and break it at some block level. Instead of having `1.2.3.4` to `1.2.5.6` on one line, let's use the first three quads (first 24 bits) and emit rows for `1.2.3.4` to `1.2.3.255`, `1.2.4.0` to `1.2.4.255`, and `1.2.5.0` to `1.2.5.6`. This lets us use the first segment as the partition key, and the full ip address as the sort key.

          lines            bytes  description                  file            
      15_288_766   1_094_541_688  24-bit partition key         maxmind-geolite_city-20121002.tsv
       2_288_690     183_223_435  16-bit partition key         maxmind-geolite_city-20121002-16.tsv
       2_256_627      75_729_432  original (not denormalized)  GeoLiteCity-Blocks.csv

       
=== Range Queries ===       

This is a generally-applicable approach for doing range queries.

* Choose a regular interval, fine enough to avoid skew but coarse enough to avoid ballooning the dataset size.
* Whereever a range crosses an interval boundary, split it into multiple records, each filling or lying within a single interval.
* Emit a compound key of `[interval, join_handle, beg, end]`, where
  - `interval` is 
  - `join_handle` identifies the originating table, so that records are grouped for a join (this is what ensures 
  If the interval is transparently a prefix of the index (as it is here), you can instead just ship the remainder: `[interval, join_handle, beg_suffix, end_suffix]`.
* Use the 


In the geodata section, the "quadtile" scheme is (if you bend your brain right) something of an extension on this idea -- instead of splitting ranges on regular intervals, we'll split regions on a regular grid scheme.

[[server_logs_ddos]]
=== Using Hadoop for website stress testing ("Benign DDos")

Hadoop is engineered to consume the full capacity of every available resource up to the currently-limiting one. So in general, you should never issue requests against external services from a Hadoop job -- one-by-one queries against a database; crawling web pages; requests to an external API. The resulting load spike will effectively be attempting what web security folks call a "DDoS", or distributed denial of service attack.

Unless of course you are trying to test a service for resilience against an adversarial DDoS -- in which case that assault is a feature, not a bug!

.elephant_stampede
----

        require 'faraday'
	
        processor :elephant_stampede do

	  def process(logline)
	    beg_at = Time.now.to_f
	    resp = Faraday.get url_to_fetch(logline)
	    yield summarize(resp, beg_at)
	  end

	  def summarize(resp, beg_at)
	    duration = Time.now.to_f - beg_at
	    bytesize = resp.body.bytesize
	    { duration: duration, bytesize: bytesize }
	  end

	  def url_to_fetch(logline)
	    logline.url
	  end
	end

	flow(:mapper){ input > parse_loglines > elephant_stampede }
----	

	
You must use Wukong's eventmachine bindings to make more than one simultaneous request per mapper.

=== References

* http://www.botsvsbrowsers.com/[Database of Robot User Agent strings]
